

The data set taken was http://data-acoustics.com/measurements/bearing-faults/bearing-4/. The data was generated by the NSF I/UCR Center for Intelligent Maintenance Systems. The double row bearing was placed in the shaft, and the bearings were fitted with accelerometer sensors. There are three different datasets, For this example, dataset 3 was taken, which has the highest number of readings, and recording values are available for every 10 minutes period of time. The goal of analyzing this dataset is to find any fault inside the mechanical component before it fails.


#Idea :

Multivariate data was transformed into 2-dimensional data to fit into algorithms as most of the distance based or density based algorithms can work in 2-dimensional space. After transformation, the distance between the points is measured, and also the distribution of points to centroid was checked for normal distribution. This ensures the robustness of the model fit.

To detect anomalies, the prototype first calculates the probability distribution p(x) from the data points of the training data. When a new example, x, comes in, p(x) is compared with a threshold s. If p(x) is less than s, it is regarded as an anomaly. This is because normal examples tend to have a significant probability distribution (p(x)), while anomalous examples tend to have a scanty probability distribution(p(x)). Through statistical tests, centroid or center of mass of the points are found. The idea is that the closer the point to this center of mass, the more likely it belongs to the set. By ploting normal distribution, the probability of the data point belonging to the same distribution
